---
layout: post
title:  "0CTF 2019 PWN WRITEUP"
date:   2019-03-31 20:06:00
categories: ctf
permalink: /archivers/0CTF_2019_PWN_WRITEUP
---
***KEEP HOLDING ON***

Because of time and ability, i just finished one problem in this contest. after the game, i first write the answer of my finished problem, later i'll resubmit the other problems'writeup.

## zerotask

this problem is interesting. i think it's the easiest problem in the whole contest. 

it seems there is no vuln in the program. but when dig into it, a race condition is in there.

the reason that the vuln formed is that it use a thread to execute the `encrypt` or `decrypt`. what's more, there is a `sleep(2)` function in the thread.

a simple example of the vuln is as shown as below:
```
add(0,encrypt)
go(0)
delete(0)
```
when i use go to execute the `encrypt` of chunk `0` in thread 1, but it will `sleep 2` seconds. In the 2 seconds, the main function will delete the chunk `0`, so it will free into `bins` which will can used to `leak address`.

Essentially, its may called a `uaf` vuln because of the race condition.

we can use it leak heap address first, and then with the heap address we can leak libc address.

we can leak any address we want, but how to write a address? we can use the same vuln to overwrite the first big chunk which size is `0x1010`, we can build a `fake decrypt` which size is bigger than `0x1010`, and which will then overwrite into next freed chunk. because the `features` of `tcache`, we can malloc out `__malloc_hook`, and write `one gadget` into it. 

finally get the shell.

## aegis

this is a problem that we need patience to find how to exploit. the most important thing is we need to learn how [AddressSanitizer](https://github.com/google/sanitizers/wiki/AddressSanitizer) works to protect memory.

there are there vulns in the program:
1. in `add_note` function, the `ID` is located next to `content` with no `null` fence which forms a bigger `content` than expected. and in `update_note` function, we can use this characteristic to overwrite to next chunk.
2. in `secret` function, we can write a `null` byte to any address bigger than `0x700000000000`
3. there is also a `uaf` vuln, the `note pointer` was not set to `null`, after `delete`

with upper 3 vulns, how to exploit it? 

first we need to know how `AddressSanitizer` works to protect the memory. it will set a shadow for memory, every 8 bytes  correspond to one shadow byte.
```
Shadow = (Mem >> 3) + 0x7fff8000;
```
when access to a memory, it will check the shadow whether its shadow is `0` or not. if it is `0`, it will permit read or write, or it will report error.

a example is shown as below:
```
if ( *(_BYTE *)((v1 >> 3) + 0x7FFF8000) )
    _asan_report_load8(v1);
```

so we can use write the `secret` func to write a `null` byte to shadow, which will allow us to handle `any 8 bytes` we handle.

second, which 8 bytes should we write? 
a chunk header is shown as below:
```
struct ChunkHeader {
  // 1-st 8 bytes.
  u32 chunk_state       : 8;  // Must be first.
  u32 alloc_tid         : 24;

  u32 free_tid          : 24;
  u32 from_memalign     : 1;
  u32 alloc_type        : 2;
  u32 rz_log            : 3;
  u32 lsan_tag          : 2;
  // 2-nd 8 bytes
  // This field is used for small sizes. For large sizes it is equal to
  // SizeClassMap::kMaxSize and the actual size is stored in the
  // SecondaryAllocator's metadata.
  u32 user_requested_size : 29;
  // align < 8 -> 0
  // else      -> log2(min(align, 512)) - 2
  u32 user_requested_alignment_log : 3;
  u32 alloc_context_id;
};
```
Before we continue, we have to go over a very important concept of ASAN's allocator. The allocator
is not designed to be hyper efficient, but to find bugs. Thus, it will try to avoid allocating
valid memory over freed memory at all costs so it can catch bugs like UAF. It does this by
putting free chunks into quarantine. Quarantined chunks are only reused after a certain amount
of memory has been freed. The standard setting is quarantine_size_mb=256M which can be seen
if you set the environment variable export ASAN_OPTIONS=verbosity=1. Thus, we need to free
a HUGE amount of memory before it gets reused. 

what we want is overwrite the size
of the victim chunk with a HUGE number. From our experience, 0xffffffff should do it

so our target is the addr of a header of a chunk, because of no aslr in this heap algorithm, so we can make sure the address with no leak.

ok, right now, we got everything we need to get the exploit. the whole exploit contains:
1. add a note with size of 0x10.
2. overwrite the shadow memory  with `null` byte of the second chunk header.
3. use the `overwrite vuln` in `update` function to change the chunk size to `0xffffffff`
4. free the note.
5. allocate again with 0x10 size, the two chunk's address will turn around.
6. leak heap and libc address.
7. overwrite `_ZN11__sanitizerL15UserDieCallbackE` in bss addr with one gadget. which will execute when memory goes error:
```
_asan_handle_no_return
_ubsan_handle_cfi_check_fail_abort
if ( __sanitizer::UserDieCallback )
    __sanitizer::UserDieCallback(this);
  v2 = &__sanitizer::InternalDieCallbacks;
```
8. get the shell.

## conclude
exp is in my [github](https://github.com/ray-cp/ctf-pwn/tree/master/0ctf2019/), and i write some comments in it, hope it can help you.

## link 
1. [AddressSanitizer算法及源码解析](https://blog.csdn.net/pang241/article/details/76137969)
2. [https://github.com/agadient/CTF/tree/master/0ctf_2019/baby_aegis](https://github.com/agadient/CTF/tree/master/0ctf_2019/baby_aegis)
3. [https://balsn.tw/ctf_writeup/20190323-0ctf_tctf2019quals/#babyaegis](https://balsn.tw/ctf_writeup/20190323-0ctf_tctf2019quals/#babyaegis)
4. [0CTF 2019 babyaegis writeup](https://www.anquanke.com/post/id/175556)

